Moonshot AI – My New Favourite Lab

Exploring why Moonshot AI stands out in the AI landscape with their unique taste and innovative approach to AI products

Section: Taste

I love food. When I was small, my taste was very restricted, but over time, I have come to love and appreciate different and diverse tastes. Sometimes the love is instant, sometimes it grows over time. However the important point is that the appreciation stems out of variety. Maximas and minimas do not exist if everything is a straight line. It is important that something has taste, either good or bad, rather than just being bland. This is the most important factor that allows appreciation to develop.

When I look at the AI landscape, it's hard to find maximas and minimas, the surface looks bland. But something that stands out are folks at Moonshot AI, because these guys have taste.

Section: The Name

Let's just begin with the name. Moonshot is a very loaded word. Its hard to appreciate just what it entails. The Apollo Program was truly an event that was pulled forward in time. It brought future to now, so much so that it has not been repeated since for almost 50 years. The sheer audacity to use it as the name means business. Love the name.

Recently Crystal shared some cool titbit about the name. The Chinese legal name of the company is "The Dark Side of the Moon", named after Pink Floyd album "The Dark Side of the Moon". The rooms at the office are also named after various albums.

Pretty cool!

Section: Fun Details

Image caption: Kimi K2

The doodle was so fun to see, adds just that little bit of extra life and character. I really do hope, they rotate it for different occasions.

The loading thingy looks like phases of the moon.

Their website is just list of research items, no other fluff.

Section: Kimi-Researcher Reports

Its not just a bland chat-bot, it outputs interactive reports. I find this to be huge!

Let's set the stage. Currently everything in a list has the same visual weight. Say the news items in your feed. Sure they are based on a ranking algorithm, but the visual space for each news item irrespective of the ranking score is same. Let's say yesterday Verstappen won the F1 Driver's Championship. This is by far the most important news to me. After a year of racing, the culmination to this results, so I would expect it to be much larger. You can notice this effect in newspapers, that is the size of the images/articles is equivalent to weight of the news story. Sinner winning the Wimbledon would mean full page photo filled with titbits, and otherwise tennis news might be small column somewhere.

Image caption: On demand generated news feed

The interactive reports generated on demand by Kimi are first steps in this direction. It opens door for future work where feeds are not just ranked with same visual space, but rather generated on demand based on the weight of different stories allowing for more expression.

Section: The People

I feel that people from Moonshot tend to yap more than others and share insights. There is a lot more discourse around ideas available to follow from these folks than otherwise seen. Probably my favourite from the bunch are jianlin.su and JingyuanLiu.

kexue.fm is all you need!

See you on the far side.
